pass by value vs pass by reference

Functions can be invoked in two ways: Call by Value or Call by Reference. These two ways are generally differentiated by the type of values passed to them as parameters.

The parameters passed to function are called actual parameters whereas the parameters received by function are called formal parameters.

Call By Value: In this parameter passing method, values of actual parameters are copied to function’s formal parameters and the two types of parameters are stored in different memory locations. So any changes made inside functions are not reflected in actual parameters of the caller.

Call by Reference: Both the actual and formal parameters refer to the same locations, so any changes made inside the function are actually reflected in actual parameters of the caller.

In call-by-values, we cannot alter the values of actual variables through function calls.
In call by reference we can alter the values of variables through function calls.

Values of variables are passed by the Simple technique.
Pointer variables are necessary to define to store the address values of variables.



/ C program to illustrate
// call by value

#include <stdio.h>

// Function Prototype
void swapx(int x, int y);

// Main function
int main()
{
    int a = 10, b = 20;

    // Pass by Values
    swapx(a, b);

    printf("a=%d b=%d\n", a, b);

    return 0;
}

// Swap functions that swaps
// two values
void swapx(int x, int y)
{
    int t;

    t = x;
    x = y;
    y = t;

    printf("x=%d y=%d\n", x, y);
}


Output:
x=20 y=10
a=10 b=20


// C program to illustrate
// Call by Reference

#include <stdio.h>

// Function Prototype
void swapx(int*, int*);

// Main function
int main()
{
    int a = 10, b = 20;

    // Pass reference
    swapx(&a, &b);

    printf("a=%d b=%d\n", a, b);

    return 0;
}

// Function to swap two variables
// by references
void swapx(int* x, int* y)
{
    int t;

    t = *x;
    *x = *y;
    *y = t;

    printf("x=%d y=%d\n", *x, *y);
}

Output:
x=20 y=10
a=20 b=10