
In C++, a constructor is a special type of function that is used to create and initialize objects of a class. Constructors have the same name as the class and are called when an object of the class is created.

There are several types of constructors that can be used in C++, including default constructors, parameterized constructors, and copy constructors.

A default constructor is a constructor that does not take any arguments and is called when an object is created with no arguments. A default constructor typically initializes the object's member variables to default values.

A parameterized constructor is a constructor that takes one or more arguments and is called when an object is created with arguments. Parameterized constructors can be used to initialize the object's member variables to specific values.

A copy constructor is a constructor that takes an object of the same class as an argument and creates a new object that is a copy of the original object. Copy constructors are used to create a copy of an object when it is passed by value or returned by value.

It is possible to have multiple constructors in a class, each with a different number of arguments. For example, a class could have both a default constructor and a parameterized constructor, or a parameterized constructor with different numbers of arguments.

```
ClassName(const ClassName &other) {
  // code to copy attributes from other to the new object
}
```

~~~
//Example:
class Dog
{
public:
  Dog(const std::string &name, int age) : name(name), age(age) {}

  // Copy constructor
  Dog(const Dog &other) : name(other.name), age(other.age)
  {
    std::cout << "Copy Constructor" << std::endl;
  }

private:
  std::string name;
  int age;
};
~~~
